John chapter 1, verse 1, and it reads as follows.
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was God, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.
The same was in the beginning with God.
All things were made by Him, and without Him was not anything made that was made.
In Him was life, and life was that light of men, and the light shined in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not.
There is a man sent from God whose name was John,
That same came for a witness, to bear witness of the light that all men through him might believe.
He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light.
That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.
He came unto his own, and his own received him not.
But as many received him, to them he gave power to become the sons of God.
even to them that believe on his name, which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.
And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth."
All right, let's pray before we get into today's message.
Dear God, thank you for your word, the Bible.
Thank you that we have it to learn from, to inspire us,
to give us direction in life, to honor and glorify you, that this congregation is here, gather here together in your name this morning, that hopefully we will be honored and glorified through your word.
And I ask that you speak through me right now to share your message of your word.
And pray these things in Jesus' name, amen.
So it is now, as Melvin mentioned at the very start, it is now December,
We are now full swing into the Christmas season, right?
If you go to the mall, you hear all the Christmas music, you see all the Christmas displays, people are putting up Christmas lights and all that kind of stuff like that.
So we've reached that point of year, right?
So I'm sure we'll hear plenty about the Christmas story and all that, but I wanted to talk about maybe a version of the Christmas story today that we don't necessarily hear as much or associated as much
with Christmas, but it's still as important, if not more important, which is the Christmas story contained in the book of John, in the book of John.
Now normally when you think of Christmas, you think about the book of Matthew, the book of Luke, right?
And you think about the things that are associated with those stories, right?
And they give their usual presentation based on what
that book's theme is, right?
And we've heard Nathan talk about this many, many times, right?
Where we have Matthew trying to establish Jesus as king.
That's why he starts off with the whole genealogy of Jesus.
And in his Christmas story, the highlight is the wise men coming to worship Jesus, right?
He's the king of kings, even other people, even other leaders like these wise men bow down to him.
Likewise, you've heard Nathan talk many times about the Book of Luke talking about Jesus' man.
And the story of Jesus' birth in the Book of Luke is very focused on his humble beginnings, birth as an infant, right?
In a manger, all those type of things that show the personhood of Jesus, that Jesus the man was born back then, right?
And that's Luke's take on that, and he has the details of all that thing.
John's Christmas story is unique because it doesn't have all those usual details and story elements that we're used to.
There's no manger, no wise men, no angel, no shepherds, no animals, no any of that kind of stuff.
Instead, his focus, similar to the other authors, right?
relates to the focus of his book as a whole.
Remember, as Nathan often likes to say, right, the focus of the book of John is Jesus as God, Jesus as God.
So his focus and telling the Christmas story at the start of his gospel is on the supernatural.
It's focused on the supernatural.
It's not about the little details of the facts of, you know,
there was a tax and they had to travel to Bethlehem and all that kind of stuff like that.
But it's on the behind the scenes stuff.
The stuff that we might not typically think of right off the top of the bat because it's not visible to us.
In fact, some of it is very
invisible.
It's the invisible story of the birth of Christ.
But it's as important, if not more important, as all that kind of stuff that we normally celebrate.
And that we normally will hear more about.
I'm sure you'll hear more about it in the next two weeks and the additional, the Christmas messages that you might get, right?
But his story can be summed up in just one verse.
And that's in verse 14, which you just read.
In verse 14, it says this,
It says this.
And the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begun of the Father, full of grace and truth.
There it is right there.
Simply stated.
The word was made flesh.
That's John's Christmas story right there.
John's Christmas story.
The word was made flesh.
So let's talk about this today.
Let's talk about what we learn from this opening of the book of John.
What does it tell us about Jesus?
What can we learn about Jesus?
And why is it important to know all these things about Jesus that the word was made flesh?
That's really it.
That's a Christmas story boiled down into the one sentence version if you want it, right?
The most economical use of words.
Let's look into the verses.
John starts off in chapter one, verse one, with a very pointed beginning.
What are the first three words in the beginning?
In the beginning.
In the beginning was the word and the word was with God and the word was God.
We've all heard that before, haven't we?
What immediately comes to your mind when you hear those words in the beginning?
I think for most of us who know anything about the Bible, and in fact, people who don't even know anything about the Bible would say this.
You think about Genesis 1-1, right?
In the beginning, God created the heaven and the earth, right?
This is an intentional word choice here by John.
He uses this intentionally to make you think about that, right?
That when you read, in the beginning, your first thought already goes to that.
Oh, in the beginning, God created.
And in the beginning,
was the word in the beginning was the word the idea being this the idea being this that in that same beginning the same beginning where the whole universe was created right the heavens the earth the people the animals the sun moon and stars the everything in the beginning the word was the word existed the word is there
It was not created.
There's no creation of the Word.
Right?
It's not made.
It's not something new.
It just was.
The same way we say God just was.
There was no creation of God.
There was no beginning of God.
It just was.
It just is.
That's the profound statement.
That's the profound statement that from the very beginning Jesus was there.
Jesus was there from the very beginning, even before the very beginning, from time into infinity past.
That is Jesus.
Now we also use the word word here.
And I'll say a side note about this, about the word word.
Why does John use the word word to talk about Jesus?
How does this make sense?
How do we know that's even what he's talking about?
I think it goes to stuff that maybe we don't understand as much because we don't know the language.
Remember, we're reading this through translation, right?
But if you were Jewish and you read this, you would understand what John was talking about because Jews knew the word of the Lord referred to revelations, revelings of God.
In fact, if you read the Old Testament, you'll see this phrase a lot.
You'll see this phrase a lot.
The Word of the Lord came, right?
The Word of the Lord came to Abraham.
The Word of the Lord came to Moses, right?
The Word of the Lord, everyone knows when you hear that.
That means God revealing himself.
God reveals himself to people, right?
So when we talk about the Word here, it's the revealing of God.
And how was God revealed in the Christmas story?
We all know this, right?
It was revealed through Jesus Christ, that He revealed Jesus.
as God on earth.
So that very same Jesus, John lays it out right here very clearly.
He's the one that was there from the beginning.
He's the one that has existed eternally.
It's not a new thing.
You know, some other cults, they have their own radical beliefs, right?
Like the Mormons and the Jehovah's Witnesses.
They will tell you, oh, Jesus was born new, new creature, different from God.
That's wrong.
That's totally wrong.
We have it right here.
John uses these words specifically to call attention to this, right?
To say that the Word was with God at the beginning and the Word was God at the beginning.
Very telling that if you look in the Jehovah's Witness Bible, they changed that to say the Word was a God, right?
Not the Word was God.
They're trying to deny the deity
of Jesus.
But one of the important things that John wants to hammer into us is that deity of Jesus.
That Jesus is God.
And he goes beyond that.
Doesn't just stop there.
Look in verses three and four.
In verses three and four he says this.
He says, all things were made by him.
All things were made by him.
That's the proof, right?
That's the proof.
Because look, we know this, whoever creates the whole world and has the power to create the whole universe and all the animals and trees and humans and you name it, whoever does that is gotta be God, right?
No one else has that power, right?
No one else has that power to create galaxies and stars and day and night.
Only God.
And Jesus was also that creator.
all things were made by him, it says, right?
That's the conclusion that he wants us to draw, right?
That's the verification that comes from looking at Jesus here.
That's the callback to in the beginning.
That's how John ties us all together to hammer it in again and again.
Jesus was from the very beginning.
Jesus was God.
And also it says in verse four,
Verse four, it says what?
In him was life.
He brings life to everyone, right?
That power, life-giving power is definitely supernatural, right?
That's the only way we can comprehend it, right?
The giver of life and death is God.
It's gotta be God.
Right?
It's not something that I can do, or you can do.
You can't say you live and you die or whatever and you control everything like that.
No, that comes from God and God alone.
We sang the song, Hark the Herald Angels Sing, right?
We had that verse there.
Light and life to all he brings, right?
I'm talking about Jesus.
Light and life to all he brings.
He brings life.
Life.
And, and, and, light.
Light, light, light.
That's the other word.
In fact, in verse number five, he goes on to say about this light, that the light shineth in darkness and the darkness comprehended it not.
Remember, we just heard not a few minutes ago, right?
That light is synonymous with God, right?
We talked about in the Old Testament days, like how did God appear, appeared in light?
It was the burning bush, as Nathan just said quite a few minutes ago.
It was the burning bush.
It was the pillar of fire.
It's so symbolic.
And John lays it out right here.
Jesus, like God, is our light, the light of the world.
Come into the world of darkness, the world of darkness of men.
The world of darkness of sin.
We say this all the time when we witness, right?
When we do the wordless book, oh, what's this black page?
What do you think of?
It's night.
It's darkness.
That's the world, isn't it?
That's the world we live in, the world full of sin, the world full of bad stuff, the world full of death, of accidents, of hunger, of poverty, of all these horrible things.
That's our world.
And into this world came a light.
And that light is Jesus Christ.
He's the one shining in the darkness.
He's the one that gives us life.
He's the one through everything that we can see, the ray of hope.
Here's the thing about light and darkness.
When you have light, the darkness can't put it out.
Is that true?
That's definitely true.
You turn on the light at home.
No matter how dark it gets outside, it could be midnight outside.
1 a.m., 2 a.m., your light still works in your house, right?
Even the tiniest light, it's true.
The other day we were walking out in the middle of the night, there was not much light, and so I turned on my dinky phone camera flashlight.
It's so small, yet you can still see that light in the darkness.
There's no way to put out light.
with just darkness is there, right?
It can get pitch dark.
There could be a blackout in the whole city.
As long as you have one match, you can see that light.
Jesus is that one light.
No matter what there is in the world, all the darkness, all the sin, Jesus is still that light there for us that can't be hidden.
that can't be put away, that can't be destroyed, that we see his light and life to all he brings.
Light and life to all he brings, that's Jesus Christ.
What's more, what's more, the proof of Jesus, that light, that eternal God, the proof came from John the Baptist.
In John 1.7, it talks about the witness, the very witness for that light, right?
that through him all men might believe.
So John's laying it out here.
It's not just the everlasting Creator, Light, God, who is Jesus, but also the prophesized one, Jesus, right?
And we heard about that in Nathan's message last year for Christmas, if you remember your memory banks, we talked about the many prophecies pointing toward the coming of Jesus Christ, and that being the proof
of Jesus Christ.
And here it is again, reminding everyone of the prophecy of John the Baptist.
John the Baptist who everybody knew by this time, who everybody knew by this time was one of the great prophets of God, the first prophet in hundreds of years that everyone acknowledged.
This man is the man of God, speaking God's word.
And he acknowledged that he was the one paving the way for Jesus Christ.
So there's the proof.
There's the proof right there that this is not just any person, that this is the one promised, the one that the person crying in the wilderness was paving the way for.
The light that John the Baptist was talking about, the light that's Jesus Christ.
All that being true, John gives us a preview of the rest of his book here.
The preview is this.
in John 1.10.
He was in the world and the world was made by him, as we just said.
And the world knew him not.
A true statement in many ways, right?
When we talk about the Christmas story, we know this.
It was true that the world didn't know him, right?
When Jesus was born, who knew?
The shepherds, the angel, the wise men.
It's about it, right?
We read from the other stories, right?
It wasn't something that the whole world knew.
It wasn't broadcast everywhere to all corners of the earth that the King of Kings and Lord of Lords has arrived.
I bet in most of the world, no one had any idea that Jesus had come.
If you lived in China at that moment, you had no idea that there was Jesus, right?
If you lived in the United States at that moment, or back then it was just what, North America, and you were among the Indians or whatever, you had no idea that Jesus was born.
No one knew.
And here's the sad thing.
Even after he was born and after he administered, the world still did not know him.
Is that right?
And even today, how sad it is that many people knew him not.
They might know the name Jesus.
Oh, everybody knows.
Ah, Jesus.
He's that guy, right?
Some people like him or whatever.
He did some kind of miracles.
But do they know him?
Do they have a relationship with Him?
That's really knowing someone, right?
When you have a relationship with them.
The world did not have a relationship with Him in John's lifetime.
In John's lifetime, Jesus continued to be rejected.
And sad to say, even in today, Jesus is still rejected and not known.
Think about all the people in the world today that have no relationship with Jesus Christ, even though Jesus is our light.
Jesus is our life.
Jesus is our Creator.
Still no relationship with Him.
And that's sad because we know this.
In verse 12 it says, Jesus saves.
Right?
Jesus saves.
That's why we need that relationship, right?
We need that relationship with them because Jesus saves.
John says it right from the beginning with his book, right?
When he talks about Jesus being born, the important thing he's calling out here is that Jesus saves.
We need Jesus to save us from our sins.
That's why we want that relationship, not because of any other, you know, whatever reason or whatever, the most important thing being that we need Jesus to save.
And he brings that out.
He brings out these elements of Jesus here.
Jesus the creator, Jesus the light, Jesus the promised one, Jesus the rejected one, Jesus Christ our savior.
And that leads us all up to verse number 14, which we read from the start, which is the story which is summed up in those four words.
The word became flesh.
And there it is, that eternal power, that Creator, that divine force, he became human flesh.
And that's an important thing, again, I'll highlight that.
He uses the word just became because he wasn't created new or transformed.
It was just, oh, that's the next thing.
He was God and then he became like this so that he could become both God and man.
And right there we have it, the mystery, the thing that
You know, as Melvin says, even we can't understand today, the trinity, right?
How can it be?
How can it be that the word, you know, became man, but did not cease to become God, cease being God, right?
And then he dwelt among us, right?
That's the profound truth.
That's the thing that causes us to celebrate Christmas, right?
It's not because of, you know, the manger and
and the angel and the star and all that stuff, while those are all great stories and all that kind of stuff.
The real story though, the real story is that baby, the same one in all those stories, that baby is the word become flesh.
It's the incarnation event that we need to focus on, right?
That because, because of that special nature, that special nature that he has, that he was,
God and man, that special nature is what makes all those things possible, that Jesus can save us, right?
It's through that, that we read in verse number 14, in verse number 14 it says this, also in the second half, after the word was made flesh, it says, we beheld his glory, the glory has only be gotten of his, of the Father.
God's glory was revealed by him coming down to us, him coming down to earth, right?
We sang in the song, the Hark the Herald Angels Sing, called back to it again, right?
Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see.
That's glorious, isn't it?
That just kind of sums it up all right there, right?
That veiled in this fleshly thing is God.
Veiled in flesh, the Godhead see, hailed the incarnate,
deity, right?
Hail the incarnate deity, Jesus with us.
In fact, Jesus are Emmanuel, it says in the Psalms.
Beautiful, beautiful Psalms.
because Jesus is our manual.
Jesus is our God with us.
He is deserving of our glory.
We can't forget that when we're talking about the Christmas season and the Christmas story sometimes, right?
They think, oh, this is baby, baby, Jesus is a little thing.
Yeah, that's true.
That's true.
He was a baby at the start, but let's not forget that even as a baby, he was our God.
He was our God.
He was our God deserving of our glory, of our reverence, of our worship.
of our following.
It says this in the second part of that verse.
It talks about he was full of grace and truth, full of grace and truth.
Only God has grace, right?
Only God has the power to forgive sin.
That's God alone and Jesus is God, right?
Only God.
He was full of grace.
And he was full of truth.
He was full of truth.
Who knows the truth, right?
Only God knows the truth.
You and I can say, oh, we know the truth, but you know, we're gonna be the smartest person on earth.
And there's still a million things we don't know that we're ignorant of.
There's nothing God is ignorant of, right?
God's the creator of everything, the knower of everything.
He knows everything.
He knows the truth.
and Jesus knows the truth because He is God.
So if we believe in the glory of Jesus Christ and we believe in the grace of Jesus Christ, should we not then believe in the truth of Jesus Christ?
We should, shouldn't we?
We can't forget that.
That if we have Jesus,
Jesus born in a manger, Jesus the baby, Jesus, Jesus also our savior, Jesus also our grace, Jesus also our Lord, that we need to follow the truth of Jesus Christ.
Doesn't it go hand in hand?
How can we say Jesus our Lord, but not say Jesus your truth?
Jesus gave us his truth, did he not?
He lived a life for 30 some odd years, right, on earth, speaking his truth, speaking his word,
That word is recorded right here in the Bible, isn't it?
Do we hold true to his truth?
We should.
He's not just some guy after all.
He's not like what the Jehovah's Witness says or the Mormon says, where he's just some guy that was born.
He's some great prophet or whatever.
He's God.
His word has that same weight as if you're hearing the exact word of God.
Do we follow him?
Do we follow His instructions?
Do we take time to read His instructions, to know His instructions, to live His instructions as if this was the Word of the Almighty, all holy, all glorious Creator of the universe speaking to us, His truth, His knowledge to us?
We ought to, shouldn't we?
Shouldn't we say, Jesus, if you want us to know Your Word, we will know it.
If you say we need to teach your word to others, we have to do that.
Jesus, if you say we need to spread your gospel, we will do that.
Jesus, whatever you say, your truth is my truth.
I am following your truth.
I am going to live your truth.
That's the message of the birth of Christ according to the word of the apostle John that
Jesus was the Word made flesh.
That Jesus was God Himself and that Jesus is who we follow.
We wrap it up with this quote here.
I think that sums it up very nicely.
It sums up my message in one sentence, right?
Because we tend to focus our attention at Christmas on the infancy of Christ.
The greater truth of the holiday is His deity.
More astonishing than the baby in the manger is the truth that the promised baby
is the omnipotent Creator of the heavens and the earth.
How marvelous, how wonderful that we have, even from the very beginning of his life here on earth, the great Creator and the great Savior of us all.
Let's pray.
Dear God, thank you for your word, the Bible.
Thank you for the ability for us to hear about this Christmas story from the book of John who reminds us over and over again.
that Jesus is God.
Jesus is God.
We want to share that message with as many people as possible, of course.
We want people to know that, to respond to that, to believe in that.
Lord, help us to live out your truth, the truth of Jesus Christ.
Thank you for being with us today and we ask that you continue to watch over us and bless this day of worship and this rest of this Sunday.
For all these things, in Jesus' name, amen.